Howdy!

You're getting this email because you're enrolled in the Django Deployment
Workshop at PyCon 2010. I hope you're looking forward to it as much as I am!

We've got a lot to cover, and the pace is going to be a bit frenetic, so here
are some notes to help us hit the ground running.

First, a couple of links for your reference:

* All the code and configuration I'll be using is available on Github:
  http://github.com/jacobian/django-deployment-workshop.
  
  Not everything's there just yet -- I'm still running through and testing that
  everything works as advertised -- but I'll be pushing all the bits and pieces
  up over the next couple days.

  There are notes in the README about how to get started and how to get some
  data to play with, which leads me to...
  
* If you'd like some sample data to play with, here you go:
  XXXXXXXXXX (25 MB).
  
  Please note that this data represents a good deal of hard work. It is provided
  only for purposes of the class, and not for any other use. So please don't
  share this link or redistribute the data and please don't release anything we
  make in the class publicly.

If you want to be able to get your hands dirty and try the examples as we go,
you'll need to do a bit of work before we begin. This stuff's all optional; if
you'd rather just watch and take notes you'll be just fine. But if you want to
try the examples out during the class, read on.

One of the big challenges of real-world deployment is dealing with the
differences among different deployment operating systems (and even among OS
versions). So to make things run smoothly and ensure we're all on the same page,
I've made a choice: I'm only going to cover Ubuntu 9.10 ("Karmic Koala").

Thus, you'll need to have access to an Ubuntu 9.10 machine. Ideally, you'll want
to have access to *four* such machines so that you can try out the various
load-balancing and replication features I'll be covering. 

Now, I obviously don't expect y'all to show up to PyCon with four servers in
tow, so we're obviously talking virtualization here. You could use something
like VMWare or VirtualBox, but I'd suggest using a of the cloud hosting
platform. Two good choices are Rackspace (http://www.rackspacecloud.com/) Amazon
(http://aws.amazon.com/).

Of the two, Rackspace is cheaper and far easier to get started with, so if
you're not already familiar with EC2, I'd suggest giving Rackspace a try. You
should be able to have four servers up and running within a few minutes.

Whatever you choose, you'll need to have these servers up and running by the
time the class starts. I'll expect everyone who wants to follow along to already
have their servers running.

Now, if you'd like to try to follow along on a different OS, or with a different
configuration, that's fine with me. However, the class'll be on a tight
schedule, so I won't be able to answer questions or debug problems with other
OSes.

If you have any questions, please drop me an email (jacob@jacobian.org). I'll
also be at PyCon Wednesday morning, and would be happy to meet up in person and
help anyone with this pre-class work.

See you in Atlanta!

Jacob Kaplan-Moss