Howdy!

You're getting this email because you're enrolled in the Django Deployment
Workshop at OSCON 2010. We hope you're looking forward to it as much as I
am!

The class is going to be fast and furious: think of it as an overview and
holistic examination rather than a deep dive on any particular topic. Our
goal is to introduce you to the tools and techniques you'll need to deploy
and scale a Django project -- but that's a long list, and we have a short
time. Thus, our technique will be to introduce tools, give you quick
overviews, and then leave you with links and pointers so that you can learn
more after the class.

So let's start these pointers now:

Slides and (virtual) handouts
-----------------------------

All the code, configuration, notes, and slides we'll be using is available
on Github: http://github.com/jacobian/django-deployment-workshop.

This is all public, and will be available before, during, and after the
class. It'll continue to be updated over the coming months and years with
new tools and techniques as we switch to and discover them.

Please grab and have a local copy of these files before we begin the class.
Let's risk the wrath of the wifi gods by all downloading the files en masse 
from the Oregon Convention Center.

Following along
---------------

You can think of this class as sort of optionally hands-on. We don't
require -- or expect -- that everyone will have the kit together to be able
to try out all the examples, and the class should be perfectly acceptable
to those who'd rather just sit back and take notes.

If, however, you want to be able to get your hands dirty and try the
examples as we go, you'll need to do a bit of work before we begin.

One of the big challenges of real-world deployment is dealing with the
differences among different deployment operating systems (and even among OS
versions). So to make things run smoothly and ensure we're all on the same
page, I've made a choice: we're only going to cover one OS: Ubuntu 10.04
LTS (aka "Lucid Lynx")

[We'll explain that choice during the class.]

Thus, for all the examples to work perfectly, you'll need to have access to
an Ubuntu 10.04 machine. Ideally, you'll want to have access to *three*
such machines so that you can try out the various load-balancing features
we'll be covering.

Now, we obviously don't expect y'all to show up to OSCON with three servers
in tow, so we're obviously talking virtualization here. If you're aiming for
the three servers, I'd suggest trying:

    * A local virtualization platform like VirtualBox (free) or VMWare
      (non-free). Either will be pretty bulletproof against stuff like
      network outages, but running three VMs on your laptop will probably
      be a bit dicey.
      
    * A cloud hosting platform like Amazon EC2 (http://aws.amazon.com/) or
      Rackspace Cloud (http://www.rackspacecloud.com/).

      Of the two, Rackspace is cheaper and easier to get started with for
      people new to cloud computing. So if you're not already familiar with
      EC2, I'd suggest giving Rackspace a try.
      
We'll be using Rackspace for our examples, but as long as you're running
Ubuntu 10.04 *where* the server (or virtual server) lives is pretty
irrelevant.

Whatever you choose, you'll need to have these servers up and running by the
time the class starts. I'll expect everyone who wants to follow along to already
have their servers booted and running.

Now, if you'd like to try to follow along on a different OS, or with a
different configuration, that's fine with us. However, the class'll be on a
tight schedule, so we won't be able to answer too many questions about
other OSes.

If you have any questions, please feel free to drop Jacob an email
(jacob@jacobian.org). We're happy to answer setup-type questions before the
class starts.

See you in Portland!

Jacob Kaplan-Moss
Frank Wiles