Howdy!

You're getting this email because you're enrolled in the Python Deployment
Workshop at PyCon 2011.

The class is going to be fast and furious: think of it as an overview and
holistic examination rather than a deep dive on any particular topic. Our
goal is to introduce you to the tools and techniques you'll need to deploy
and scale a Python project -- but that's a long list, and we have a short
time. Thus, our technique will be to introduce tools, give you quick
overviews, and then leave you with links and pointers so that you can learn
more after the class.

So let's start these pointers now:

Slides and (virtual) handouts
-----------------------------

All the code, configuration, notes, and slides we'll be using is available
on Github: http://github.com/jacobian/django-deployment-workshop.

However, **THE CODE THERE ISN'T DONE YET!** This space changes fast, and I'm
busy updating things to cover new developments in the Python deployment space.
So pull the code down now if you like, but please remember to update just
before the class begins. I'll also have all this material on USB sticks to
pass around the class tomorrow.

All this code is public, and will be available before, during, and after the
class. It'll continue to be updated over the coming months and years with new
tools and techniques as I switch to and discover them.

Following along
---------------

You can think of this class as sort of optionally hands-on. The material's
very fast-paced, and unfortunately the class is going to be very large -- over
60 people are enrolled, and so I likely won't be able to move at a speed
acceptable to everyone. So the class is designed to be perfectly acceptable to
those who'd rather just sit back and take notes. The class will also be
recorded, so y'all can go back over anything you missed at your leisure.

If, however, you want to be able to get your hands dirty and follow along,
you'll need to do a bit of work before we begin.

One of the big challenges of real-world deployment is dealing with the
differences among different deployment operating systems (and even among OS
versions). So to make things run smoothly and ensure we're all on the same
page, I've made a choice: we're only going to cover one OS: Ubuntu 10.04
LTS (aka "Lucid Lynx").

[I'll explain that choice during the class.]

Thus, for all the examples to work perfectly, you'll need to have access to
an Ubuntu 10.04 machine. Ideally, you'll want to have access to *three*
such machines so that you can try out the various load-balancing features
we'll be covering.

Now, we obviously don't expect y'all to show up to the class with three
servers in tow, so we're obviously talking virtualization here. If you're
aiming for the three servers, I'd suggest trying:

   * A local virtualization platform like VirtualBox (free) or VMWare
     (non-free). Either will be pretty bulletproof against stuff like network
     outages, but running three VMs on your laptop could a bit dicey.
     
     You might also give Vagrant (http://vagrantup.com/) a try -- it's a
     pretty nifty wrapper around VirtualBox that makes managing multiple
     VMs pretty painless.

   * A cloud hosting platform like Amazon EC2 (http://aws.amazon.com/) or
     Rackspace Cloud (http://www.rackspacecloud.com/).

     Of the two, Rackspace is cheaper and easier to get started with for
     people new to cloud computing. So if you're not already familiar with
     EC2, I'd suggest giving Rackspace a try.

I'll be using Rackspace for my examples, but as long as you're running
Ubuntu 10.04 *where* the server (or virtual server) lives is pretty
irrelevant.

Whatever you choose, you'll need to have these servers up and running by the
time the class starts. I'll expect everyone who wants to follow along to
already have their servers booted and running.

Now, if you'd like to try to follow along on a different OS, or with a
different configuration, that's fine with me. However, the class'll be on a
tight schedule, so I won't be able to answer too many questions about other
OSes.

If you have any questions, please feel free to drop me an email
(jacob@jacobian.org) or find me in the halls today and ask. I'm happy to help
anyone with pre-class setup today.

See you tomorrow!

Jacob